% A ConTeXt document [master document: jParser.tex ]

\section[title=Overview]

For the initial version of the syntax for both the JoyLoL Configuration 
Language, and the JoyLoL Language itself, we make essential use of 
Bertrand Meyer's definition of the early version of Eiffel contained in 
\cite{meyer1992eiffelTheLanguage}. We will however make extensive changes 
to suit our new purposes. Eiffel's essential use of \quote{programming by 
contract} is however very close to one of our twin purposes for JoyLoL. 

We structure the various parsers using ideas from Meyer's 
\cite{meyer1990theoryProgrammingLanguages}. 

While the \joylolSExp\ based code of this chapter is required before the 
contents of the next chapter can be \emph{compiled}, the \joylol\ code of 
this chapter is a \quote{simple} \emph{simplification} of the code in the 
next chapter. We do this \emph{because} we follow Meyer's advice on how to 
structure programming langauges contained in his book, 
\cite{meyer1990theoryProgrammingLanguages}. Meyer's advice is essentially 
to let the \emph{abstract} syntax (and semantics) lead the concrete.

For Meyer, Abstract Syntax (\cite{meyer1990theoryProgrammingLanguages}) is 
essentially a simplified Abstract Data Type 
(\cite{meyer1997objectOrientedSoftwareConstruction}) with only 
\quote{simple} \quote{getters} and \quote{setters}. Similarly, for Meyer, 
Abstract Data Types are the \emph{abstract} \emph{mathematical} 
counterparts of Eiffel Classes 
(\cite{meyer1997objectOrientedSoftwareConstruction}). Our thesis is that 
\emph{mathematics} \emph{is} computational, so for us, there is only a 
difference of \quote{degree} between an Abstract Data Type and a \joylol\ 
CoAlgebra (the \joylol\ equivelant of Eiffel Classes). 

Given this, the next chapter contains the \quote{full} \joylol\ CoAlgegras 
from which this chapter's parsers are 
simplifications\footnote{Essentially, to obtain the code in this chapter, 
we simply delete everything from each CoAlgebra in the next chapter 
\emph{except} the concrete syntax.}. 

