---
title: "Hilbert's Program: Volume 1: Base case: omega-computation"
keywords: 
  - foundations
  - computational
release: draft
authors:
  - Gaito, Stephen
---

## Hilbert's Program: Volume 1: Base case: omega-computation

Every long term researcher should have a silly question, if only to keep 
them focused upon whole problems amidst all of the unending detail. Your 
ultimate destination, whether or not you get there, influences how you plan 
to get there. The problem for any researcher, is that the research 'space' 
is infinite dimensional. From the dazzle of choices, you must make 'one' 
sequence of choices which, one hopes, ultimately leads to your answer(s). 
The vantage point provided by your ultimate goal, influences the questions 
asked and hence the answers found. The choice of where you want to get to, 
does have a profound influence on how you choose to get there.

My silly question is:

    Why do babies babble?

There are (at least) two aspects to this question:

1. How do organic naive 'brains' build models of reality. Too much of 
classical artificial intelligence focuses on the incremental learning based 
upon the capabilities of 'adult' learners. However this misses the 
point of learning models of Reality 'ab initio'.

2. Equally important, is the question of what constitutes an efficient 
model. Animal brains must keenly balance energy use with the 
comprehensiveness of a given model. Any animal that gets this wrong too 
much of the time, becomes someone else's lunch.

So put simply, my objective, as a *mathematician*, is to build efficient 
and mathematically rigorous models of Reality. However, if you are going to 
build a mathematically rigorous theory of Reality, you must first provide a 
mathematically rigorous theory of Mathematics itself. This document is 
devoted to providing just such a rigorous foundation for Mathematics.

Since the ancient Greeks, western influenced Philosophical, Scientific, 
Mathematical practice has been to equate rigour with proofs of 'Truth'. 
Euclid's 'Elements' has, for just over two millennia, provided the 
pre-eminent example of this paradigm of rigorous proof. However, Gödel's 
two Incompleteness theorems, show that classical proofs through logic are 
unable to provide the rigorous foundations we require. This is the failure 
of Hilbert's *logical* Program.

Essentially, Gödel's work around the early 1930's represent the first 
contributions to the theory of computation. Gödel's theorems from this 
period concern themselves with our ability to compute 'Truth', and the fact 
that such computation of 'Truth', is only partially recursive, rather than 
totally recursive.

Instead of computing 'Truth', is there a more useful computation which 
might provide a foundation of Mathematics? By exploring Hilbert's Program 
within a *computational* framework, the objective of this document is to 
show that the answer to this question is yes.

The primary objective of Hilbert's 'Program', was to provide a rigorous 
foundation for Analysis whose metamathematics is finitist. A modern 
paraphrase of Hilbert's program would be the following (*logicist's*) 
statement:

    Find a *logical* axiomatization of mathematics whose *logical* proof of
    consistency is *'finitist'*.

Hilbert was, himself, notoriously vague about what constituted a 'finitist' 
(logical) proof. However his program helped develop our current 
understanding of metamathematics, logical proof, as well as finitism.

A statement of a *computational* version of Hilbert's program is very 
similar:

    Find a *computational* axiomatization of mathematics whose 
    *computational* proof of *computability* is, at some meta-level, 
    *finite*.

In this document, we are *explicitly* re-founding mathematics using a
*computational* as opposed to a *logical* tool-set.


