# A TeXer's Progress

A TeXer's progress explores how to use ConTeXt from the point of view of 
a LaTeX user. We develop a simple mathematical article using both 
AMS-LaTeX and ConTeXt.

In this project we develop three related papers:

1. **A TeXer's Progress** describes the overall process of working with 
ConTeXt's mathematics typesetting macros.

2. **An AMS-LaTeX paper** is a simple article writen using the 
"standard" AMS-LaTeX package.

3. **A ConTeXt paper** is the same simple article writen using the 
ConTeXt package.

The actual simple paper will discuss the Henon and Lozi maps as 
dynamical systems. This will allow us to use aligned equations, some 
included graphics as well as some Tikz/MetaFun line drawings. We will 
also make use of some categorical diagrams. Finally, as with any 
scholarly article, we will make use of BibTeX/ConTeXt to provide a short 
bibliography.

**This will always be a work in progress.**

## License

All of the included papers are Copyright (C) 2017 by Stephen Gaito and 
are released using the following [Creative 
Commons](https://creativecommons.org/) License:

<a rel="license" 
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative 
Commons License" style="border-width:0" 
src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br 
/><span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" 
href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Text" property="dct:title" 
rel="dct:type">A TeXer's Progress</span> by <a 
xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" 
href="https://github.com/stephengaito" property="cc:attributionName" 
rel="cc:attributionURL">Stephen Gaito</a> is licensed under a <a 
rel="license" 
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons 
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.<br />Based on a 
work at <a xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" 
href="https://github.com/stephengaito/aTeXersProgress" 
rel="dct:source">https://github.com/stephengaito/aTeXersProgress</a>.
